
    o  NOT change testEqual to all.equal as in base?
    o  NOT fortan split into pieces in different packages?
    o  NOT revised tframe docmentation?, demo?, unbundled?
    o  NOT Documentation of state initialization has been improved.
    o  NOT Spencer's print.ARMA.
   
Known Bugs

    o Handling of initial conditions for the state space smoother still 
      needs work.

                 CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2005.9-1

Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o An experimental class TSrestrictedmodel has been added, which allows a
      very general specification of cross-coefficient restrictions,etc. 
      See  ?TSrestrictedmodel for more details.

    o smoother and l.SS where fixed to use solve(A,B) constructs rather 
      B %*% solve(A) in some instances where this was not done already.
      This was done in both the S and fortran versions of the code, so that
      results for fortran and S versions are nearly identical even in the case
      of "big k" state tracking initialization, which is known to be numerically
      problematic. (In more usual cases the results were previously nearly 
      identical.)

    o a bug was fixed in the structure of additional information passed back 
      from estMaxLik.

    o a bug was fixed in the structure of some information passed back 
      from the state space smoother.

    o smoother.default was changed to smoother.TSmodel and gives an error 
      message if not called with an appropriate SS model. (There is now no 
      default method.)

    o the setting of constants was added to constuctors ARMA and SS and a bug
      was fixed in setTSmodelParameters, so that these are not now reset to 
      parameters after estimation.

    o an argument rootP0 (default NULL) was added to state space (SS) models 
      so that an initial state covariance (P0) can be specified in a
      parsimonious form. This may not be a permanent feature. See also the new
      TSrestrictedModel class.

    o an argument eps (default 1e-15) was added to the stability function and 
      roots within eps of 1.0 are now considered unstable (unstationary) models.

    o some more argument checking was added to tfplot
   
    o Depends lines where added to the bundle description file so that
      installation should now properly look after dependencies.

Changes Affecting Development

    o The makefile system was revised so that tests are run individually rather
      than as a single block.

                 CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2005.6-1

Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o the matrix inversion routine was switched to use Lapack routines
      distributed with R. These work better in some circumstances 

    o fixed a bug in fortran code for the state space smoother (SMOOTH) when
      the output dimension exceeded the state dimension. The matrix
      inversion was also switched (see above) which gives improved results. 
      
    o fixed a bug in the state space smoother when the model has input data u_t.

    o a bug in TREND for ARMA models was fixed again.(Some details where missed 
      in fix in the previous release.

    o several minor documention errors were fixed.

Changes Affecting Development

    o added additional tests of the smoother.

    o added test to check that setting TREND works.


                CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2005.4-1
 
Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o package guides have been renamed from "pac-guide.pdf" to "pac.pdf"
      (e.g. dse1-guide.pdf is now dse1.pdf) so they can be displayed with e.g.
      print(vignette("dse1")) and the vignette code loaded in an editor with
      e.g. edit(vignette("dse1")). The combined guide is still dse-guide.pdf.

    o more arguments have been added to tfplot to pass to par() and matplot. 
      These give better control over plot line colours and styles.      

    o a bug constructing a TSdata format with univariate ts is fixed.        

    o a bug in TREND for ARMA models was fixed.

    o acfM was removed. This was a utility for some code that was previously
      removed. (Use acf to calculate autocorrelations.)

Changes Affecting Development

    o more testing of TSdata constructors and methods has been added.          


                CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2005.1-1
 
Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o added NAMESPACES to all packages (except setRNG). Exporting generics but 
      not specific methods means calling specific methods must be avoided.
      NAMESPACES in bundles seemed to require switching .DSECOMPILED and .DSEDUP
      global flags to "dynamic variables" using a local function.
          
    o moved makeTSnoise from tframe to dse1 so tframe does not require setRNG.
          
    o fortran code for state space models was changed to pass scratch arrays
      from R, so state and output dimension can now be arbitrarily large.
      Previously the state and output dimensions could not exceed a fortran 
      parameter IS=100 without being recompiled, and an error was not always
      indicated. (There still seems to be a bug in maximum likelihood 
      estimation when the state or output dimension exceeds 100.) 
          
    o fixed fortran code (SIMSS) to use w instead of e as measurement 
      equation noise for non-innovations models (as in S version of code) and 
      fixed related test. 

Changes Affecting Development

    o revise makefiles QC system to combine Rcode and codetest targets, which 
      are now called $(CODETEST). This has a target that is the tested 
      lib/package rather than a flag, which is more reliable and makes 
      reading the makefiles much easier. The tarball target was changed in the
      same way.

    o revise makefiles QC system to use configure so that QC can take place in
      a separate directory. Testing of different architectures and different R
      versions should now take place in a different directory, so the TMP and 
      FLAGS naming convention was simplified.
          
    o revise makefiles to test demos separately, and other makefile cleanup.
          
    o reversed dependency between padi and dsepadi as generic is now in 
      dsepadi (so that padi is not necessary for most things).

                CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2004.10-1
 
Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users
 
    o  The NEWS file for setRNG is now maintained separately in that package.

    o  Started using separate version numbers for setRNG and syskern, but still
       using a common one for all dse and dseplus packages.

    o   moved some more documentation from the code into the help files. There
        is still some clean up to do.

    o   fixed documentation mistakes, bugs and error checking in
        simulations with user supplied random numbers.

    o  TREND in ARMA models generalized and documented better and to indicate
       that this term in ARMA models handles more than just trends.

    o  added "state" extraction utility and examples in SS, l.SS and 
       smoother documentation 

    o  added a check in seriesNames<- that the number of names matched the 
       number of series.
    
    o added \concept{DSE} in the documentation. 

Changes Affecting Development
          
    o  require(ts) and require(mva) changed to require(stats) for R 1.9.0
      
    o  continuing Makefile cleanup.

    o  moved bundle constuction to Bundle directory.

    o  moved NEWS to Bundle directory.


                CHANGES IN DSE, setRNG,  AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2004.4-1
 
Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users
 
    o   fixed window.default (tfwindow) warnings in vignettes
          
    o   fixed a bug in the constructor TSdata.default which prevented
        tframe and series name information from being properly used
	in the resulting TSdata object.

Changes Affecting Development
          
    o   fixed some version number tests which will not work correctly in R-2.0.


		CHANGES IN DSE, setRNG, AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2004.3-1

Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o	setRNG has been unbundled from dse and is distributed as a standalone
        package, but is required by dse.
    
    o	the tframe package was reworked to avoid the need to override generic
        functions (start, end, frequency, time, and diff) in base, as this is
	not allowed in 1.9.0. New generic functions (tfstart, ...) were 
	added to look after some programming situations where the old 
	generics do not work. Users typically should not need to use these 
	methods at the command line (but may prefer to for programming). The
	method periods() was renamed tfperiods() to give a consistent naming
	convention.
	
    o	a tf (time frame) argument, which can replace start, end and frequency,
        was added to several functions.	
	
    o	start. and end. where replaced by start and end in tfwindow, tfplot, and
        simulate methods, since the code can now distinguish the function 
	start() from the variable start.
	
    o	the names of some method arguments were modified to match generic
        arguments (as caught be R 1.9.0 tools).

Changes Affecting Development

    o	makefiles were re-arranged and cleaned up.

    o	as.double() and double() calls to .Fortran changed slightly.

		CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2003.9-1

Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o	fixed bug in fixConstants which prevented setting of arbitrary elements
        in SS models to constant (non-parameter) values other than 0 or 1. The
	documentation of fixConstants was also improved.

    o	fixed bug causing occassional seg faults in smoother.

    o	fixed bug preventing estMaxLik properly setting the estimated parameters
        in SS models (so they appeared to be unchanged).

    o	usage of random seed tightened up to correspond to R 1.8.0

    o	minor documentation errors caught by new tools() have been fixed.

Changes Affecting Development

    o	use of tools() in Makefiles has been been further refined.

    o	prcomp eliminated as version in R 1.8.0 now supports complex matrix.
    

    
		CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2003.6-1

Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o	several more program names have been revised so as to avoid confusion 
	with methods for generics with similar names. (That is, function 
	foo.bar has been changed to fooBar, or to barFoo in some cases.)
    o	DSEversion (previously version.DSE) gives the version of 
    	each package.

Changes Affecting Development

    o	testing in Makefiles has been been further refined.

		CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2003.4-1

Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o	dseplus which works with the previous dse changes is released.
    
Changes Affecting Development

    o	testing in Makefiles has been been further refined.
    o	test tolerances in dseplus have been adjusted for R 1.7.0 and Splus 3.3.
    o	very minor changes because of R 1.7.0 name spaces.

		CHANGES IN DSE AND DSEPLUS VERSION 2003.2-1

Changes (Possibly) Affecting Users

    o	several program names have been revised so as to avoid confusion 
	with methods for generics with similar names. For this reason, the
	new Users' Guide should be used, despite its problems.

    o	the Users' guide is (being) broken down into pieces for each 
    	package and re-written using Sweave (with .Stex files in inst/doc).
	The Users' Guide (dse-guide.pdf) is still placed in dse1/inst/doc
	as the bundle structure does not have a place for documentation.

    o	the old package syskern has been divided into setRNG which is included
	with dse and a new package syskern which is moved to dseplus.

    o	most routines have been convert to use La.svd and La.eigen in place 
    	of svd and eigen (and test values were revised slightly in some cases).

    o	DSE.HOME has been removed and .path.package is used in its place.

    o	version.DSE now gives the version of each package.

Changes Affecting Development

    o	testing in Makefiles has been revised so code (Rcode+tests) is the 
	only inter-package dependency. Examples, demos, and guides do not 
	affect other packages.

    o	reliance on bundle structure is largely removed, and Makefiles 
	have been re-organized to reflect this.
